kubectl version:

Usage: Check the client and server Kubernetes API versions.
Description: This command displays the version of the kubectl client and the Kubernetes cluster's server version. It helps ensure compatibility between the client and server components.
kubectl cluster-info:

Usage: Display information about the Kubernetes cluster.
Description: This command provides essential information about the cluster, including the cluster's master node URL and the services running within the cluster.
kubectl get pods:

Usage: List all Pods in the current namespace.
Description: Use this command to retrieve a list of Pods running in the current namespace. It displays information like Pod names, statuses, and age.
kubectl describe pod <pod-name>:

Usage: Get detailed information about a specific Pod.
Description: This command provides a detailed description of a specific Pod, including its containers, IP addresses, events, and resource requests/limits.
kubectl create -f <yaml-file>:

Usage: Create resources from a YAML or JSON file.
Description: You can create various Kubernetes resources (e.g., Pods, Services, Deployments) by defining their configurations in a YAML or JSON file and applying it using this command.
kubectl apply -f <yaml-file>:

Usage: Apply changes to resources defined in a YAML or JSON file.
Description: Use this command to apply changes to resources. It can create new resources or update existing ones, ensuring the desired state is achieved.
kubectl delete <resource-type> <resource-name>:

Usage: Delete a specific resource.
Description: This command allows you to delete a resource by specifying its type (e.g., Pod, Service) and name. Use with caution, as it permanently removes the resource.
kubectl scale deployment <deployment-name> --replicas=<num-replicas>:

Usage: Scale the number of replicas in a Deployment.
Description: Adjust the number of replicas for a Deployment to scale your application up or down based on demand.
kubectl get svc:

Usage: List all Services in the current namespace.
Description: This command retrieves a list of Services in the current namespace, providing information about their names, cluster IP addresses, and external endpoints if applicable.
kubectl logs <pod-name>:

Usage: Display the logs of a specific Pod.
Description: View the logs generated by the containers running inside a Pod. Helpful for debugging and troubleshooting.
kubectl exec -it <pod-name> -- <command>:

Usage: Execute a command in a running container.
Description: Interactively run a command inside a container within a Pod. Useful for debugging or performing one-time tasks.
kubectl rollout history deployment <deployment-name>:

Usage: View the rollout history of a Deployment.
Description: Check the history of updates and rollbacks for a Deployment, including revision numbers and status.
